So it's now time to talk about inner
classes because the thing is in Java,
it's actually possible to nest
a class inside another class.
So what I'm gonna do is start by outlining
the four types of nested classes, and
then we'll go through some examples.
So the four types of nested
classes that you can use
in Java are static nested classes.
We could use a nonstatic nested class and
we call that an inner class.
We use a local class, now that's an inner
class that's defined inside of a scope
block which is usually a method and
also an anonymous class which is
a nested class without a class name.
Now, the static nested class is mainly
used to associate a class with its
outer class.
So in terms of behavior, you'd think of it
as being identical to a top level class,
but the difference is that it's packaged
in its outer class rather than in
the package.
So that really means that it cannot
access the nonstatic methods or
members of its outer class without first
creating an instance of that class.
So I know that sounds like a mouthful.
But I think what we'll do is, we'll
start with a nonstatic nested class or
the inner class,
because these are quite useful.
And the reason that they're useful is when
it doesn't make sense to refer to a class
without its outer class.
So the example is if we're
actually modeling an engine.
We might actually have a gearbox class and
a gear class.
So let's go a head and
actually create that to see how
this actually works in practice.
So I'm going to go and create a new class.
Gonna call the first one Gearbox.
And we're gonna add a few
things to the Gearbox.
We're going to have an array list for
the gears, number of gears and
also the gear number.
So we'll create those fields.
Private ArrayList .
We haven't created that class yet.
We're going to do that gears
private int maxGears and
private int gearNumber,
and we'll set that to 0.
We'll create constructor, and the only
parameter is gonna be the maxGears,
like so.
And set that to maxGears to maxGears.
And then we'll also do
a this.gears = new ArrayList.
So we'll just initialize it.
But we also wanna do gear neutral = new
Gear (0.0.0) that's so.
And I think what I did there is, I didn't
specify the right level of Java for
some reason so I had to fix that.
If you ever do get that problem
just right-click this and
go to open bunch setting.
We're gonna make sure that we've
got project set to right version.
So we'll change that
to version that eight.
You can see Diamonds we're
introduced in version seven.
I have actually said that in an earlier
video to make sure you're always using
version eight there.
After you select that,
that should fix that error.
And what we need to do is we
need to add the Gear class,
which we'll actually fix at shortly.
So we're creating a new Gear
as you can see there, and
we're going to add that to
the array this.gears.add(neutral).
So that's the base class, and what we'll
actually do now is create an inner class.
This is the inner class which is
sort of a class within a class.
So to do that, making sure that you're
actually in the public class definition.
So we're in the final bracket in between
any method, at the end of any method but
before the closing brace that
where we can start typing.
So we can type public class Gear,
just as you would normally do it and then
we can actually add some private fields
just as you would normally create a class.
So int gear number, your number and
the same private double ratio.
We can create a constructor and you can
see we'll be using a constructor in
the gearbox constructor
to create a new gear.
So we'll do that, and
the constructor will have two parameters,
the gear number and the ratio like so.
That should fix that other
error on the screen there now.
And we'll just create a public method for
drive speed which will basically accept
the number of revs as a parameter and
multiply that by the ratio
to get the drive speed.
So to do that, so we normally do,
we'll just actually create a method.
So public double driveSpeed int revs.
We could return revs multiplied by ratio.
So there's a step list like a definition
for when you're in a class.
So it doesn't actually make sense to
refer to a gear in this scenario,
except when we're talking
about a gear box.
So that's why we've modeled it like this.
So the gear isn't something that
sort of is useful in its own right.
It's coupled with a gearbox so
it makes it useful.
So that's the idea of
using an inner class.
As I said, when it doesn't make sense
to refer to something except within
the context.
In this case, it doesn't make sense to
talk about gears unless it's within
the context of a gearbox.
This one we borrow the gears using
an inner class of the gear box class.
Now instances of the gear
class have got access to
all the methods of fields of the outer
gearbox class, even those mark as private.
So notice that the use of this in the
inner class refers to the inner class and
not the outer one.
So in other words this.gearNumber,
the this is actually talking about this
actual class here, the public class.
So the inner class in other words,
it's not referring to gearNumber.
That's in this one here,
cuz that's actually in a different class.
That's in the top level class,
the gearbox class.
I keep that in mind that when you're using
this particularly with inner classes,
that you're actually dealing with the
class that you're currently in this case
we're talking about the gear class.
And that probably brings up
an interesting point here.
But they're using the same variable
name for two different things like this,
is confusing.
And of course, the reason why it's
confusing is that inside the gear,
both this stock gear number and
gear number,
refer to the gear number of the gear and
not the gearbox itself.
So if you want refer to gearbox's gear
number from an instance of the gear class,
you have to use gearbox.this.gearNumber.
So if a word or variable or
parameter name is the same one as
the one that's in the outer class,
it's said to shadow the declaration of
the outer class or in the outer class.
So here gearNumber in the gear class.
This one here.
We can actually say that that is shadowing
gearNumber in the gearbox
class which is that one there.
So that's not a good thing.
So we're gonna rename gearbox variable
to current gear to avoid confusion, and
that's what I certainly recommend because
you're gonna get into all sorts of
problems otherwise.
So what we're gonna do is we're just
gonna right-click that Refactor > Rename,
we'll actually change
that to current gear.
CurrentGear.
The center, that will actually make
a lot more sense to do it that way to
avoid any confusion because obviously,
you wanna make things as easy as
possible when you're developing.
And anything you can do to
reduce this sort of confusion,
particularly when you start
dealing with inner classes.
It is very important to do that.
So make sure you do keep that in mind.
Now the gear class itself
is a member gearbox and
it must be created within instance of it.
And probably the best way to show you what
I mean by that is actually to show you
the examples.
So we'll go back to our main class and
create that so
you can understand how that works.
So go back to main.
We're gonna write some code here, so
we're going to start while typing gearbox.
So Gearbox we'll say,
mcLaren it's a nice car, = new Gearbox(6).
The six gears, in other words.
Now, to actually create a gear class,
we have to use Gearbox box.gear, like so.
First = mcLaren.new Gear 1,
the ratio 12.3.
Then we can do something like
System.out.println(first.driveSpeed and
we can set that to say, 1000 revs like so.
So it's important to
understand the declaration and
because gear is an inner class to gearbox,
we need to specify like that,
we need to specify the outer
class Gearbox., and then Gear.
And then actually also here, you notice
that line there, we actually used
the gear box instance that we created and
we did a .new there for the gear.
So slightly different syntax when you're
creating an inner class like that when you
probably seen in code before.
So keep that in mind cuz
it's very important.
You'll actually get an error if
you try to create a gear object
without actually having an instance
of gearbox to created from.
And just to show you what I mean by that
let's create a few more examples and
you can sort of see the weird
areas that you get.
So we've got the first one there,
mcLaren = new Gear.
That one worked fine,
but if we tar topping
Gearbox.Gear second = new Gearbox.Gear.
Notice the syntax is different 2, 15.4.
We actually get this
weird little error here.
And the error is, conduct in the bracket
.Gearbox is not an enclosing class.
So you can't actually do it that way.
You basically need to use the .new
back referencing the outer class
versus what you saw in the example above.
We created the outer class which was
gearbox, created new instances of that and
then we used the .new on
the end to get that to work.
So that doesn't work like that,
but you also can't do this.
You can't do Gearbox.Gear third
= new mcLaren.Gear(3, 17.8).
That also doesn't work, so
you get an error that's you can't resolve
the simple gear and that's because again,
we need to use the .new to create
a new instance of it like that.
So keep that in mind that you
probably would think that
with particularly with the third gear,
that it would actually work like that.
But as you can see,
any attempt to create the third gear might
look like how you'd expect it to look like
but it actually doesn't work as well.
And again, just confirmation that
in the case of the second gear.
It actually files with that error which is
always gearbox is not an enclosing class
which is slightly confusing,
so if you look at that,
you're probably thinking
why is it doing that?
And that's because gearbox does
seem to be an enclosing class,
in as much as the outer class for
gear for that call new to work.
Gear would have to be
a static nested class.
So it's just really a matter
of getting used to the syntax.
The bottom line here is that
this is the correct way to
actually create the outer class
which you would normally do anyway,
there's nothing new about that,
but in terms of the inter class,
you reference the outer class first dot
then whatever name the inner class is.
And then you when you that's for
declaration purposes and when you're
actually initializing it the name of
the object you've created .new then
whatever the name of the unit class is.
And then the normal parameters
you would have in a constructor.
And so for this just run that to
see that it's actually working.
You can see that I've actually
got some errors there.
I'm not good at picking up typos
when I'm actually recording videos.
Now if we actually run it, now that I've
actually fixed that other little typo,
we should actually find that it works and
it comes up as you would expect it to.
So bottom line is that the correct
syntax might be a bit clunky, but
that's just how it's done.
That's how the designers of
Java have implemented this, and
we obviously have to work with that.
Another thing to keep in mind is that
often though the inner class is gonna be
private anyway.
So in other words instances will
only be created by the outer class.
So in other words you wouldn't normally,
if you got a gearbox here
it's the outer class, the inner class is
probably in this case geared is probably
something you don't want people don't
normally directly access anyway.
So in other words, the instance is
gonna be created by the other class.
So making this class gear
private makes sense here
because we're not actually interested in
the individual gear objects we're driving.
We wanna change the gear, but
we do that by interacting with the gearbox
not with the individual gears.
So in other words, your public
interface that you're exposing to your
program here would be gearbox,
you wouldn't be exposing gear directly,
you'd be exposing the fact that
you can actually change gears,
you won't be interacting with
the gears itself, if that makes sense.
So what we could actually do is
actually make some changes to that, so
that's how it would actually work.
And you're sort of going back
to the gearbox class anyway.
Size that down.
That we didn't actually
create a new gear anyway.
And in the constructor we add a new
gear for neutral anyway by default.
And that's how we could access that.
So if we actually change this now and
change this so
this is actually a private class.
The inter class is now private,
so you can see there.
We've still got a constructor and
the ratio,
but we don't need to make
any other changes to it.
But that will mean if you come back to
here, we actually get errors now and
that's because we can't access
that directly anymore, but
we'll need to make some changes to
the gearbox to actually do that.
So what we're gonna do is
actually add a few functions.
We're gonna add a function for
operating the clutch.
We're gonna add the add a method
rather to actually add gears, so
we can actually add gears to our gearbox
object which will be adding gears to
the array list automatically.
And to show you how to change gear as
well, all done from the outer class,
in this case gearbox.
So this is going to be
above the declaration for
the private class gear now, so
we'll start off by operating clutch public
void operateClutch(boolean_in),
in as you can see there.
And I haven't created that variable yet,
but we can do that shortly.
So ClutchIsIn = in,
whatever the status of that is.
I will create a Boolean in here.
So it'd be private boolean
clutchIsIn like so.
So that's the ability to
operate the clutch as a method,
we'll also add the other method which is
the ability to add gears to our gearbox,
add public, void, add gear and
we'll pass a number,
that should be the gear number and
the ratio, which you saw us using before.
Now we'll just do some
basic checking here.
We'll put if((number > 0 && (number <=
maxGears) maxGears was
something we defined up above.
MaxGears, if that's the case,
this.gears.add creating a new gear class
which you remember is now private.
So only the outer class, the gearbox
class can directly talk with it now, and
we need a gear number and also the ratio.
So that's the add gear method and then
the other thing we wanna do is we want
the ability to change the gear as well,
and to do that we use a change gear.
We'll create a change gear method,
so public void change gear int newGear.
We wanna make sure that it's valid.
So we're gonna put if newGear >= 0,
remember it can be 0 if it's
neutral & newGear <this.gear.size.
So we are just validating that we
actually have got a gear of that number.
That's the case.
And also check ClutchIsIn
assuming it's a manual.
But if this .clutchIsIn, if all that is
true we can go this.currentGear = newGear.
We can do something,
we can print just a message out to say,
gear + newGear selected else, what we're
gonna do is put out a message Grind.
[LAUGH] Which would basically mean that,
that is a problem with you
trying to change the gears and
you're getting that weird sound you get
from a menu when you're trying to do that.
And we'll set this .current here to 0
cuz we weren't successful in actually
sending the or
changing the gears essentially.
And what we'll also do,
is we'll actually add a wheel speed
method as well to determine the speed.
So I'm gonna create one,
public double wheelSpeed.
And the parameter will be revs,
if(clutchIsIn).
Scream [LAUGH] like so,
and we'll return 0.0, so
we're not returning any
calculation at this point in time.
Otherwise, if the clutch is set in,
in other words the car can move,
you're gonna return revs * gears.get
(currentGear).getRatio.
And what we haven't done, is we
haven't actually exposed the getRatio.
So we need to do that,
that's a method of the inner class.
Or we can just end this and just getter,
so we're gonna do a getter for
our ratio like so, and
that should fix that other error up.
So you could see how now,
we've written the gearBox class
to perform all the functionality
it needs in the gear class itself.
We're creating new instances of the gear
and saving it in our array list up here,
but we're also using various functions
within the gear to get the ratio and for
other sorts of calculations.
In this case here,
you can see in the wheelSpeed,
if the clutchIsIn obviously
we're not actually moving.
There's gonna be a problem.
[LAUGH] So we're screaming,
we're turning zero.
Otherwise though, it's the revs multiplied
by the gear or the current gear.
The current gear that we've actually
set in the changeGear method.
And then we're using the dot ratio which
is actually called from the inner class
itself.
Now that's how you would
actually go about doing it.
So what I'm gonna do,
this video is getting a bit long.
I'm gonna stop here and in the next video,
I will come back and will actually
put some of this code into the main method
and start seeing how this actually works.
So I'll see you in the next video.